# Meeting 93

<Meeting index="93" members="Bob, Elif, Mohammed, Wang" date="2 Nov 2020 11:00" nextDate="9 Nov 2020 11:00">

::: slot topic

- VIS conference
- EnsembleVis meetings every Friday at 9am

:::

::: slot prog

- Next draft of LetterVis paper
- Bob reviews LetterVis paper
- Attendance at EnsembleVis meeting
- Bob follows up on contract extension

:::

::: slot todo

- [x] Prepare demo video draft include case studies
- [x] Ask Arron and Owen if they can meet on 16 or 23 Nov at 11:00
- [x] Next draft of LetterVis paper
- [x] Attend EnsembleVis meeting
- [x] Attempt to take minutes of EnsembleVis meeting
- [x] Remind Bob to follow-up on contract extension

:::

</Meeting>
