# Meeting 105

<Meeting index="105" members="Bob, Mohammed, Wang" date="21 Dec 2020 11:00" nextDate="4 Jan 2021 11:00">

::: slot topic

- Zulip, trello, slack, discord
- VRVis and AVL

:::

::: slot prog

- Shape files from gov.uk

:::

::: slot todo

- [x] Have a look at Liam McNabb's thesis

:::

</Meeting>
