# Meeting 118

<Meeting index="118" members="Bob, Wang" date="1 Mar 2021 11:00" nextDate="8 Mar 2021 11:00">

::: slot topic

- Discuss each view in EnsembleVis website
- HEOR

:::

::: slot prog

- LetterVis submitted to CGI
- EnsembleVis meeting

:::

::: slot todo

- [ ] F+C rendering option: user selects 1 row that is rendered in focus with the other rows as context
- [x] F+C to line chart
- [x] Update CGVC website: location, dates (Sep 2021), committees:
    - Conference committee: [Chris Headleand](https://staff.lincoln.ac.uk/daa59075-c37c-4a18-a529-ead1acfcf512)
    - Program chars: Kai Xu, Tom Kelly (Leeds)

:::

</Meeting>
