# Meeting 134

<Meeting index="134" members="Bob, Wang" date="14 Jun 2021 11:00" nextDate="21 Jun 2021 11:00">

::: slot topic

- House renovations
- CGVC
- Agora
- Force collide, d3-force

:::

::: slot prog

- Bob registers for EuroVis 2021
- US shapefile+covid vaccination rate
- LetterVis published

:::

::: slot todo

- [x] Take notes on which overlap removal algorithms you have looked at and keep a list
- [x] Make a table column 1)algorithm name, 2)paper citation, 3)URL, 4)search process, 5)available implementation: https://www.notion.so/henryqw/9d16ce2fa995492098e8a7314860caf3?v=9570038bbca2451fbd6e6b09c84ec171
- [x] Do the same with force-directed d3 libraries
- [x] Focus on continental US
- [x] Update CGVC 2021 website
- [x] Add media sponsor to CGVC 2021
- [x] Attend health data workshop, take notes including names and applications.

:::

</Meeting>
