# rind2017visual

## Visual Analytics of Electronic Health Records with a Focus on Time

<Paper>

::: slot concept

This survey reviews the existing Visual Analytics and Visualization work with a focus on EHRs ^[Rind, A., Federico, P., Gschwandtner, T., Aigner, W., Doppler, J., & Wagner, M. (2017). Visual Analytics of Electronic Health Records with a Focus on Time. In F. Capello, G. Rinaldi, & G. Gatti (Eds.), New Perspectives in Medical Records (pp. 65–77). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-28661-7] ^[Aigner, W., Federico, P., Miksch, S., & Rind, A. (2012). Challenges of Time-oriented Data in Visual Analytics for Healthcare. IEEE VisWeek Workshop on Visual Analytics in Healthcare.]. The authors structure the paper around technical challenges drawn from earlier work ^[Rind, A., Wang, T. D., Aigner, W., Miksch, S., Wongsuphasawat, K., Plaisant, C., & Shneiderman, B. (2011). Interactive Information Visualization to Explore and Query Electronic Health Records. Foundations and Trends® in Human–Computer Interaction, 5(3), 207–298. https://doi.org/10.1561/1100000039].

:::

::: slot classification

There is no clear classification available in the survey, nor a classification table. Systems are classified by their technical challenges listed in Section Challenge below.

The authors emphasize on VisuExplorer [^VE], Gnaeus [^G], Gravi++[^G+], TimeCleanser [^TC] and LifeLine [^LifeLine] with detailed descriptions of the systems.

They also briefly review 10 other state-of-the-art EHR systems with very limited context.

:::

::: slot challenge

The authors identify 5 technical and societal challenges in existing implementations.

   1. Complexity of time-oriented data.
   1. Intertwining patient condition with treatment processes.
   1. Scale from single patients to cohorts.
   1. Data quality and uncertainty.
   1. User interaction and user-centered design.

:::

::: slot unsolved

1. Utilization of real-time sensor data is still unexplored.
1. Collaborative analysis with multiple devices and screens.
1. Patient involvement in managing health records.

:::

::: slot cited

61

:::

::: slot years

1997-2016

:::

::: slot domain

Visual Analytics and Information Visualization of EHR.
Visual Analytics of Time-Oriented Data.

:::

</Paper>

[^VE]: Rind, A., Miksch, S., Aigner, W., Turic, T., & Pohl, M. (2010). VisuExplore: gaining new medical insights from visual exploration. Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Interactive Systems in Healthcare (WISH@CHI2010).

[^G]: Federico, Paolo & Unger, J. & Amor-Amorós, Albert & Sacchi, Lucia & Klimov, D. & Miksch, Silvia. (2015). Gnaeus: utilizing clinical guidelines for knowledge-assisted visualisation of EHR cohorts. 10.2312/eurova.20151108.

[^G+]: Hinum, K., Miksch, S., Aigner, W., Ohmann, S., Popow, C., Pohl, M., & Rester, M. (2005). Gravi++: Interactive information visualization to explore highly structured temporal data. Journal of Universal Computer Science.

[^LifeLine]: Plaisant, C., Milash, B., Rose, A., Widoff, S., & Shneiderman, B. (1996). LifeLines: visualizing personal histories. Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems Common Ground, 221-ff. https://doi.org/10.1145/238386.238493

[^TC]: Gschwandtner, T., Aigner, W., Miksch, S., Gärtner, J., Kriglstein, S., Pohl, M., & Suchy, N. (2014). TimeCleanser: A visual analytics approach for data cleansing of time-oriented data. ACM International Conference Proceeding Series. https://doi.org/10.1145/2637748.2638423
